[male announcer]
For over 5,000 years,
humans have been getting inked.
Tattoos have been used
to declare devotion to gods,
display status,
and show allegiance.
Now they're mainstream.
Over 45 million
Americans are inked,
and the number
is growing daily.
[buzzing]
This season, on  Ink Master  ...
Welcome to New York City.
[announcer]  Sixteen of
the best tattoo artists
from all over the country
will battle it out
to determine who's number one.
[screams]
[announcer]
Tattooing human canvases
in a series
of extreme challenges.
[retching]
I'm getting a Phoenix
shooting fire out of my vagina.
[announcer]
Their skills will be tested
in every essential discipline.
Their masterpieces and mistakes
will last forever.
It's on my back.
You can't [bleep] see it.
You added that [bleep]
without telling me.
[announcer]  Judged every week
by top names in the industry...
I don't care if you guys
kick my teeth in or not.
How do you walk into
this competition not prepared?
Doing [bleep] like this
is disrespectful.
[announcer]
They'll be eliminated
until only the best
tattoo artist remains...
-Earning the $100,000 prize...
-[Bleep]
[announcer]
And the title of Ink Master  .
[rock music]
♪ ♪
[edgy rock music]
I've been training
my whole life
for a fight like this.
So I'm definitely ready
for anything that comes at me.
What's up y'all?
If you view me as soft,
I'm gonna let you think that
until I'm ready
to crush your skull.
If I wasn't confident that
I could win this competition,
I wouldn't be here.
This is it, huh?
I'm not here to make friends.
I couldn't give a [bleep]
less about them.
-Morgue entrance?
-[woman] This is a morgue?
We're at
a [bleep] morgue.
That's [bleep] awful.
We'll find out who vomits first.
What's up, guys?
What's up?
-[laughing]
-Welcome to New York City.
Yeah.
A mere 34 square miles
on the map,
but home to over
1,400 licensed tattoo artists,
making it the unofficial
tattoo capital of the world.
Now all of you standing here
claim to be the best.
Well, this is your chance
to prove it.
Over the next 11 weeks,
you'll live and work together
competing
in grueling tattoo sessions
designed to put your skills
to the test.
In the end, one of you will earn
a $100,000-dollar prize,
a featured article
in  Inked magazine,
and claim the title
of  Ink Master .
Whoo!
Let's meet our judges.
First up, he travels
around the world tattooing
and specializes
in American traditional.
He owns two shops:
Elm Street Tattoo
in Dallas, Texas,
and True Tattoo
in Hollywood, California.
The legendary Oliver peck.
[applause]
To be a real
tattoo master,
you need to be well-rounded.
When the heat is on,
you can't break.
Next up,
best known for being the owner
of Love Hate Tattoo,
Miami-raised
and world traveled,
he's been tattooing
for 20 years,
specializing in Japanese,
Mr. Chris Nunez.
I just want
to see somebody come out
and execute, on the money,
what it is they're
being asked to execute.
If they can't do that,
they're not going
to go far in the competition,
and I really don't give
a [bleep].
And, of course,
I'll be your third judge.
I'm not a tattoo artist,
but I have been getting tattooed
for over quarter of a century.
I'll be speaking
from the client's perspective.
Our job is to be honest.
And honesty can be brutal.
They know goddamn well
what's coming.
There can't be any bitching
out of 'em this time.
That's not all.
This season,
you will also be judged
by the most unforgiving critic
of all...
America.
Each week,
viewers at home will scour
every detail
of your elimination tattoos
at inkmaster.spike.com.
Then they will vote for
the tattoo they think is best
using the same criteria
that the judges use.
Holy [bleep].
America voting... that's gonna
change the game up a lot.
It's a lot of people
to be judging your work.
In the end,
at the live finale,
America's votes
will play a huge role
in determining
the next Ink Master.
I'm ready to go.
I'm in the game.
I'm gonna put up a fight
to make it into the finale.
[Bleep] just got real.
We'll start
with the Flash Challenge,
a skills test where the winner
will gain the advantage
going into
the elimination tattoo.
The elimination tattoo decides
who stays and who goes home.
You'll want
any advantage you can get.
This week, we're establishing
a baseline of your skills
by testing your fundamentals.
It's the basics of tattooing.
You must tattoo a snake
and a dagger.
I just want to see
clean outlines, solid color.
If you can't give
the judges fundamentals,
then you got
to get off the ship.
Now you might be wondering
why we're standing
in front of a morgue.
According to legend,
some early tattoo artists
would sneak into morgues
to practice their art
on corpses.
Grim for sure,
but a good way to practice
the fundamentals of tattooing.
A dead client doesn't squirm.
Grab your machines
and let's head inside.
-[laughing]
-Oh, [bleep].
We're gonna be
tattooing dead people.
Half of the guys
are gonna puke,
and the other half
are gonna pass out.
This is gonna
be terrible.
There's this eerie funk.
There's just
a smell of blood.
Here are
the dead bodies.
This was no joke.
I'm freaking out.
Everybody is freaking out
about tattooing someone dead?
[Bleep] Them.
Let them [bleep]
in their pants.
Let's meet
your first client.
All right,
maybe it's not a corpse.
Thank god!
We don't have
to touch dead people.
This body is made from
a realistic flesh-like silicone.
Tattoo apprentices
often practice
on surfaces similar to this.
But today is not practice.
Each of you
has been randomly assigned
either an arm or a leg
to tattoo.
You'll have three hours to
complete this Flash Challenge.
And your time...
begins now.
I'm known
for my crazy tattoos.
The weirder it is,
the more I like it.
I don't tattoo snakes
and daggers very often,
but it's really
easy to draw.
I mean, like,
how hard could it be?
Oh, man.
Seriously.
[Chuckles]
-[laughing]
-Push [bleep].
[Bleep] that sucks.
I've been tattooing
for a long time.
I've never squirted myself
in the face with ink.
She's got some problems.
This is pretty
[bleep] awesome.
I'm sitting
there half blind,
looking like a douche bag.
[Bleep]
There's two types of people.
There are passive people.
They like to be
told what to do.
And then there's people like me,
that stand up for themselves
and don't take [bleep]
from nobody.
I would say
my style would be realism
I've evolved
from different genres.
-[Machine buzzes]
-I'm hating life right now.
[Tattoo machine buzzes]
-How's this
thing treating you?
Murder?
[Bleep]
The first Flash Challenge
it's sucks ass.
I hate it.
I do every style.
I pretty much do
whatever comes in the door.
I'm very confident
in myself as a tattoo artist.
You spent a lot
of time drawing it on?
Not so much than,
like, getting the lines right.
I'm from Colombia,
South America.
I do something
that I would call magic realism,
which is the technique
of realism applied
to things
that are not necessarily real.
I want to win,
because I'm the best.
I have a point to prove,
and I'm going to prove it.
I really like color realism.
It's taking a painting and
putting it on someone's skin.
I've always heard
I charged an arm and a leg,
but I never believed it.
I'm not really known
for any certain style.
But if you can bring it in,
I can do it.
And with 20 years
of experience,
I should easily be able
to beat these guys.
I'm 22 years old,
and I'm in the biggest
tattoo competition in the world.
I'm always underestimated.
You don't have
to be old and experienced
to be a good artist.
These people
don't scare me.
They're just in the way.
I feel like I have
to prove
that there are great
female tattoo artists.
I think a lot
of female tattoo artists,
till this day,
are still misinterpreted.
I just want to prove
to everybody
we deserve a lot of respect.
Dude, after I got used
to it, man,
I actually kind of enjoyed it.
You don't have to worry about
the customer crying about it.
I'm mostly known
for my comic book style tattoos
with bright, bold,
contrasting colors.
I was in the military
for five years.
Ink Master means
that you're [bleep] bad-ass.
I want the title.
The title's everything.
All right, guys.
You got two hours left.
What kind of stuff do you
primarily like to do?
I guess new school.
I like to skew everything
a little bit,
try to see how far
I can bend something
before it doesn't look right.
I've been doing
my own style
for about seven
or eight years now.
I haven't done anything
but what I do.
It's not my forte.
That old school [bleep]
is not my [bleep] bit.
My style is black and gray
macabre, horror,
creepy, gory,
nasty-looking satanic devils.
If it's eating something,
I want to do it.
Is that
what you look like inside?
Yes. The muscles kind
of spiral a little bit.
And then you got the spine
and the ribs going down.
My specialty
is having no specialty.
I'm a Jack of every style.
So I can hold my own
against anybody.
Should I do something
simple and traditional?
[Bleep] no.
I want to do something
that's gonna wow the judges.
So I'm gonna go all out
on this one.
My favorite style of
tattooing is new school,
without a shadow
of a doubt.
It's big, bold lines,
bright colors,
in-your-face tattooing.
I'm not here
to fight for second place.
If you're standing
in front of me
and I need to get through
you to get to the prize,
you're getting
knocked out.
I specialize mostly
in black and gray
and, lately, Japanese tattooing.
When I'm not tattooing,
I'm usually training
for my A.M.A. Fights.
Hope they brought the Novocaine.
[Machine buzzes]
Alright, guys.
We've got one hour left.
One hour
to finish these things up.
Never thought
I'd be in a morgue
getting my ass kicked
by a severed arm.
I have a split personality.
The other side of me
they call BLB:
The Belligerent Little Bastard.
Been tattooing for 14 years.
I like big, bold, sculpted lines
and lots of bright color.
Trying to pull something
out of it, man.
Trying to pull something.
I learned to tattoo in prison.
And tattooing,
it saved my life.
I can perform any kind
of tattoo.
One of my greatest qualities
is the ability
to interpret a client's idea
into the form of a tattoo.
Definitely went too big
for this skin texture.
I thought it would act
like regular skin. No way.
How many people
are regretting going
as big as they did?
Hopefully,
this will be the start
of do what you can in the time.
Don't do oversized [bleep].
Ten seconds.
Nine, eight, seven,
six, five, four,
three, two, one.
Time's up.
Machine's down, please.
Damn, I wish they
didn't have to see this.
I definitely have the worst
piece of [bleep] of the day.
I'm so pissed.
It's the biggest
piece of crap.
This is what I'm starting
out of the gate with:
A face full of ink and
a really [bleep] looking snake.
There is a twist.
This changes
everything.
The tattoo's these clients
want are a nightmare.
If I hadn't stopped
right there,
you would've been on the floor.
I had no idea it was going
to be this [bleep] intense.
Time's up.
Machine's down, please.
We're gonna come around
for the critique.
Jamie. You got
a big piece on there.
I overshot.
At the end of that dagger
is curiously odd.
Man, that snake head,
it's a dinosaur.
Cee Jay.
You got
to be excited about this.
No, it threw me for a loop.
Are we talking
about the tattoo
or the face ink-splatter?
I'm glad to see, though,
that you did have
some black left over.
It's real dark.
The design of the snake,
it looks like this is one snake,
and then this is a totally
different snake going on here.
A little strange.
Mark.
Solid black areas
in this design
definitely make it look
like this is a cover-up.
I feel like I got to point out
that you have a pretty sweet
snake head tattooed
on your own neck.
One would assume that you
would get a look at that
every day in the mirror.
I have no excuses.
[David] So, Mike.
How was this to work with?
It was a struggle every step
of the way.
I've seen a lot of drawings
that look like dragons, in here,
more than snakes.
And this is one of them.
I would say the design
is just weak.
Ron. Wow.
-I went way too big.
The dagger of this
is mostly lost.
You don't have much dagger
above the head.
You don't have very much dagger
below the head.
Don't go for size.
Because size
is not gonna win the race.
Tatu Baby.
There's a lot
of good shading and dimension.
And a lot of good color.
I wanted
to concentrate more
on being able
to pack in the color
than go so big and not be able
to accomplish anything.
Sebastian.
Looks like
you can outline pretty well.
It's nice
to see that it's nice and clean.
-Thank you.
-Nick.
This has a lot of gap
between the open spaces.
Really no interaction
with the dagger and the snake.
You didn't give US much
to look at.
Jesse.
I like the color, man.
Lot of contrast.
Well, you definitely have
your style.
It looks really clean.
I have to take Jesse down.
He's gonna be a serious
competitor in this game.
Lalo.
You packed a lot of color
in there.
You made it solid wall-to-wall.
It was more difficult
than I thought.
I feel like I just jumped
and tried to land on my feet.
Clint.
You guys asked to show,
you know,
the fundamentals of tattooing.
So I showed light sources,
depth, flow.
This is one of those snakes
that looks a little bit
like a dragon.
But it still--
it looks cool.
Steve.
The shading looks smooth.
The outline is clean.
Straight lines
and good clean curves.
There's a lot
of good soft gradation.
[Dave] Sarah.
[Chris] The view of
the snake is cool.
You went at it a different way
than everybody else.
The dagger's handle,
you could've done
a little bit more with it.
Sarah may come off young
and innocent,
but she nailed her snake.
That girl can tattoo.
She's gonna be
a tough competitor.
Big Daddy Tray.
This snake does not meet up
at all.
Attention to detail, man.
It's supposed to line up.
Don't make that mistake again.
TJ.
I wanted to do
real bold color, make it pop.
Man, you got the color good.
It looks bright.
As far as the detail goes,
you didn't really put
any real texture or detail
into the line work
or the shading of the body.
Kay Kutta.
That dagger is jacked.
I mean it's bent,
it's crooked.
-It's slovenly.
-I lost a lot of the pattern.
And I just tried to, you know,
make something out of it,
salvage something.
It definitely
got away from you.
I don't think Kay
is technically competent.
If he keeps bringing what
he's bringing to the table,
and I keep bringing what
I'm bringing to the table,
he's going home.
When it comes to
the fundamentals of tattooing,
I think there's
a very short, narrow field
of who's up for winning
the Flash Challenge.
I feel like
Jesse was the one
that looked like he knew what
he was doing from the start.
His design was his own style.
It was deliberate.
Sebastian's was clean,
smooth shading.
He's definitely in my top.
If you want
to talk straight fundamentals,
your design layout
is the first thing.
If that's bad, then it doesn't
matter how your execution is.
On Tray's,
the snake didn't even line up.
Before he even started
tattooing, he messed up.
Yeah, but even, still,
Kay's was...
A disaster too.
Way, way more
in trouble than Tray.
There's a lot of proving
to go on.
You guys want to go in there
and declare a winner?
-Let's go.
-Let's do it.
In this Flash Challenge,
we tested
your fundamentals skills
by having you tattoo
a classic design.
After reviewing everyone's work,
the judges have come
to a decision.
The winner
of this Flash Challenge is...
Jesse.
I'm really excited to
win the first Flash Challenge.
But now I have a big
target on my back.
As winner
of the Flash Challenge,
you'll be given an advantage
in this week's
elimination tattoo
that will give you an edge
over the competition.
And as for the rest of you,
you still have a lot to prove.
There's $100,000 on the line.
So go move into your loft,
and we'll see you at the shop.
ow.
Oh, my god.
That's what's up.
Oh, my god!
Oh, hell, yeah.
Fully stocked.
This [bleep] is crazy.
Oh, this is nice!
I'm in here to do work.
I don't know why everybody else
in here
is thinking they're
in summer camp
having a great [bleep] time.
I don't want
to live with these people.
The faster they get the [bleep]
out of this house,
the faster I get comfortable.
One by one,
everybody's going home.
Ah, hell.
She's skating in here?
Really?
I'm not here to be, you know,
buddy-buddy with everybody.
I'm here
to do some serious [bleep].
So I'm hoping you guys
are on the same level,
because, if not,
we are gonna have problems.
Wow.
-Holy [bleep].
-Nice.
This place is so dope.
-Now this is a tattoo shop.
-[Solitary applause]
-Shop is great.
I can't wait
to do my first tattoo.
The place is sick.
Welcome, guys.
For the elimination tattoos,
you'll be permanently inking
human canvases.
Make them proud,
and you'll be on your way
to a $100,000 prize
a feature
in  Inked magazine,
and the title of Ink Master.
This week,
we're testing
your fundamentals.
Every year, thousands of people
are getting their first tattoos.
Tattoo virgins offer plenty
of clean skin,
but they're not always
the easiest clients.
Today, you'll be giving
a virgin their first tattoo.
Why do we have
to tattoo virgin skin?
It is, by far,
the worst thing.
You might get somebody
to just say,
"I can't do this anymore,"
and I'm gone because
of a client.
So let's meet your canvases.
Jesse.
As winner
of the Flash Challenge,
not only do you get
to pick your own canvas,
there is a twist.
You now have the power
to assign all
of the human canvases.
This changes
everything.
This is gonna become
a dog-eat-dog thing.
It's more
on a personal level now.
You're personally gunning
the people
you think are a threat.
That's huge.
Remember, you're not here
to make friends.
You're here
to win $100,000.
What you want?
A picture
of a realistic place,
where everything
is made out of bacon.
This guy is crazy.
Do you want something
that is just so far-fetched?
God, please, in heaven,
don't let that
fall in my lap.
What you want, man?
I want a Japanese
warrior riding a turtle,
having a snake as a leash.
I'm definitely trying
to be strategic.
-What do you want?
-Mechanical gears, pulleys.
I'm basically being put
in a position
where I'm gonna make a bunch of
enemies right from the get-go.
-What do you want?
-I want cobra
that turns into
a double helix on my ribs.
The guy wants a snake?
That would be, like,
perfect way to bounce back.
I know Jesse's gonna give it
to me.
This is biblical, right here.
I need it.
-Here you go.
-Jesse!
-That's it.
-Canvases...
One by one, read the name
on the bottom of your skull.
Sarah.
And, of course,
Jesse assigns me bacon.
[Bleep] You, Jesse.
This sucks.
Cee Jay.
-"Big daddy" Tray.
Mark.
Steve.
Ron.
Jesse.
Mike.
Jamie.
Kay Kutta.
Jesse assigns me
a human canvas
that wants a skull
and a crown.
I think he
throwing me a bone,
but, at this point,
I kind of need a bone.
Tatu Baby.
Clint.
Sebastian.
Nick.
Lalo.
You guys have the rest
of the evening
to talk with your tattoo virgin
and come up with a design.
Tomorrow, you'll have six hours
to tattoo.
Based on your work,
one of you will be
the first artist
to close their shop
and go home.
Good luck.
Hello.
Very rarely
does somebody walk in
on their first tattoo
and not give a [bleep].
So kind of like a Crescent
or a jagged peak.
They're gonna be real picky.
This is a perfect challenge
for the fundamentals.
All right, so you wanted
a cobra on your rib cage?
You want a scorpion
and a bull.
I like the idea of the blood
and the purple.
-You know what I'm saying?
-Yeah, man.
We gonna rock it, man.
Thank you
for not getting bacon.
So you want a city made
of bacon.
My human canvas wants
this big back piece.
-Upper back, right?
-Yep.
All right, so we're only
gonna have about six hours.
-We want it to work.
-Yeah.
And I don't want
to bite off something
and leave you
with something half-finished.
A back piece
is not easily accomplished
in six hours.
There's a lot of detail.
And I'm not really sure
if I'm gonna be able to finish.
I'm so
[bleep] nervous.
I'm asking myself what
the [bleep] I'm doing here.
There's so many things at stake.
I know if I [bleep] this up,
the judges
are gonna send me packing.
There's a lot
of talented people here
[bleep] their pants.
This has to be
the best angel I've ever done.
Somebody didn't
do her homework.
For today's
elimination tattoo,
we're testing
your fundamentals tattoo skills.
You have six hours.
And your time starts...
Now.
For the elimination
tattoo today,
we are looking for the cleanest,
most-solid fundamentals,
quality tattoos.
-That's gonna fit sick, man.
-Yeah.
These canvases are sensitive
because they're first-timers,
they're virgins.
That's the gray area.
Because some of the tattoos
these clients want
are a nightmare.
If you feel
like you're gonna throw up
or anything like that,
we'll get some water,
get some food in you,
and you'll be good to go.
-You got a bucket in here?
-We got a trash can.
All right, all right.
Stay calm,
keep breathing there.
-[Exhales]
-Are you nervous?
Oh, super nervous.
-Super nervous? Oh, great.
-Yes.
Well, you know what?
So am I.
All right.
Took everything
that you wanted,
threw it in there.
What do you think?
Oh, my god.
That is amazing.
I'm lucky enough
to land a tattoo
of a ninja riding a turtle,
in a lake,
with a snake as a leash.
This tattoo sucks.
Everything cool?
It's amazing, actually.
I have to just demonstrate
fundamentals of tattooing,
and get the [bleep] out
of this tattoo
while I still have a chance to.
Are you dying?
You got to earn it.
My strategy is
to do a different style
of tattooing,
every single tattoo.
An Ink Master, to me,
is somebody
that can do every style.
-Did you just draw this up?
-Yes.
That is drawn from looking
at a regular playing card.
I'm not the one
to be underestimated.
Bottom three? Me? Nah.
Nah.
[Tattoo machines buzzing]
I'm really
just barely tapping you.
-That's tapping?
-[Tattoo machine buzzes]
I'm really, really,
really excited about this.
I think I'm really
gonna impress the judges.
The placement's great.
I'm using a lot
of pretty color.
I'm determined
to show the judges
that I know what I'm doing.
I'm not doing so bad.
[Bleep], Cee Jay,
keep rockin'.
I actually think
Cee Jay's tattoo is pretty weak.
And this might be
a bit of a dick move,
but I'm actually
encouraging her.
Sometimes a false sense
of security goes a long way.
Three hours, guys.
Halfway there.
Ouch.
So brutal, man.
My canvas looks like he's
about to pass out.
Don't worry,
you're all right.
If he passes out,
I am screwed.
I'm gonna wait
until you feel better.
With how much
that I've gotten done,
I don't know if I'm gonna
be able to finish this.
When you're kind of
stressing out so much,
your body kind of
goes into shock,
basically the precursor
to passing out.
I've got to finish this tattoo.
There's no way in hell
I'm going home on this.
Now if you do start feeling cold
and clammy again, like that,
tell me immediately.
If I hadn't stopped right there,
you would have been
on the floor.
[Tattoo machine buzzes]
My tattoo looks
[bleep] awesome.
It's strong, it's bold,
it has big balls.
Kay Kutta is obviously not
a very proficient tattooer.
He is definitely showing
that he's struggling.
The tattoo is rough.
It doesn't have
a black outline on it.
That's gonna definitely
land him in some [bleep].
So good.
I definitely did not come
to window-shop for the title.
I came to ring it up and throw
that [bleep] in the bag.
Thirty minutes, guys.
Thirty minutes left.
[Tattoo machines buzzing]
Tattooing
[bleep] hurts,
that's why
I don't have that many.
A virgin
doesn't understand that.
I have, you know, big dreams
of getting tattoos
-in a lot of other places.
-Right.
Those dreams
quickly got shattered
as soon as you started.
Ten minutes, guys.
I'm frustrated
and struggling.
Let's do what we can do.
I don't want to show the judges
an unfinished piece of work.
I know they want to see
something crisp, clean and done.
You just keep sitting still.
You're taking this like a champ.
Four minutes, guys.
Still hearing machines.
Jesus, [bleep].
I had no idea it was gonna be
this [bleep] intense.
Cee Jay. She's got
a mess on her hands.
Frantic and stressed out
and scribbling.
She's not going about this
in a very systematic way.
Seriously gonna
crap my pants.
It's gonna be probably
the most un-hot thing
I've ever done,
next to getting ink
all over my face.
To be an Ink Master,
you have to be able
to work under pressure.
If you can't take it,
you're out of here.
Ten seconds.
Nine, eight, seven,
six, five, four,
three, two, one.
Time is up.
Machines down.
No more ink.
All right, brother.
Thank you for being
a good sport, brother
and working with me, man.
-[Sighs]
-At least I finished.
This tattoo will definitely show
that I have
a strong fundamental background.
Because a lesser artist
would not have been able
to think about pulling this off.
This one spot, man,
is not good.
I'm pissed at myself,
I'm disappointed with myself.
Just wish I would have
had the time
to, like, really do
those little tiny tweakings.
These judges
are gonna tear me up.
This is gonna be way brutal.
Which tattoo should
go home before you?
-Yours.
-No!
Oh, [bleep] Off!
This right here
is gonna get you going home.
We got 16 people.
Somebody's got to get out.
[motorcycle revs]
They're judging
on fundamentals,
so clean, solid tattoos.
They're gonna nitpick
every line.
You make one little mistake,
you're taking the walk of shame.
[suspenseful music]
♪ ♪
Welcome artists.
This was
the judges' first chance
to see what you can do
on real, live skin.
This week's
elimination tattoo
was giving a virgin
their first ink.
We were testing
your fundamentals.
Mark.
How was it dealing
with your client?
It's his first tattoo,
and he went for the ribs.
It was a bumpy ride,
but he held on.
I like heavy black.
But you lost some of your detail
in overworking it.
Well, I went
dark on purpose.
'Cause he is
a darker complected person.
Maybe, next time,
try doing individual scales.
And leave a skin break.
Especially with
a darker-skinned complexion.
The darker the skin, the more
highlight you want to use.
Less is more.
Tray.
You got the Griffin.
There's not a lot
of variation.
From across the room,
it does look like
a big constant spot
of uniform color.
Thought my
outline was clean.
I thought my shading
was all right.
Think pretty much it looks good
to me.
If you want
to just do run-of-the-mill,
be in the middle,
keep doing what you're doing.
If you want
to go any further than that,
you got to pick it up.
Tatu Baby.
What little outline you did
in this tattoo is weak.
The face and the hands
are jacked.
I don't know where you got
that face from.
But it should never
come back again.
I don't understand
why you'd just drill
a white line
across the forehead.
That's strange.
I was trying
to give it the statue look.
You're here to go home
with the money, right?
Mm-hmm.
-This is not the way
to get the money.
-Jesse.
-[Bleep]
I just don't like
the placement
of that huge, new-school
pop art piece.
You had the opportunity
to do anything you wanted.
You could have done something
really nice and feminine.
I would hate to see where
a cute girl walks into a shop,
and walks out
a little less cute.
And you think
that happened here?
That's my fear.
Kay Kutta.
How do you feel
about this piece?
I like what I did
for him, man.
I changed his life,
and he changed mine.
I mean, I feel good about it.
Up top, in the crown,
there's just a few
strong black outlines
that stand out.
And then most of it
has no outline at all.
I don't do much outlining.
There is a few outlines
on this tattoo that show me
that you had an outline needle
and used it.
With my art,
I do a lot of random stuff.
This challenge
is the fundamentals.
I had to do something that--
that had some big swinging nuts.
It just seems like you have
fear to run a black outline.
You can't come here and compete
scared to do an outline.
This is day one,
and this is the beginning.
As we move on,
it gets harder.
So if we can't move past this,
where do we move to?
Nick.
My biggest complaint,
it just all has
the same shading everywhere.
You have to use light and dark.
In the dark areas,
go more towards black.
And in the light areas,
use that negative skin space
instead of using white.
-Lalo.
-I look at this--
this guy knows what he's doing.
The black is black.
A lot of different tones
of gradiation.
It's obvious you know how
to tattoo.
-Little Mike.
[Oliver] It looks phallic to me.
The reason it's looking
so phallic,
is 'cause it's got no lips.
It's got no mouth.
[Chris] It's got
a realistic eye.
It's odd, man.
Sebastian.
[Oliver] We have it all.
You did color,
you did solid black,
you did shading.
This is day one--
fundamentals.
Everybody should take a note
from the way you treated this.
Thank you.
Jamie.
This thing is clean.
The black is solid.
The light shading
is nice and soft.
[Chris] Just
a fundamental tattoo.
You did a great job.
Sarah.
My problem with it is that
if you didn't tell me
that this was bacon,
I wouldn't know what to say.
This is a tough one.
A lot of the light colors
aren't solid.
A lot of the shading
on the exterior,
under the bridge,
is just kind of--
I would just like
a little bit more
than six hours.
There's time limits
on every tattoo you do.
This is gonna be a big issue.
Steve.
This thing is super tech.
Leaving these gears with
a hard heavy-textured black.
It is sharp.
It is clean.
The small use of color
is just right, man.
Ron.
[Chris] Explain to me
what this design was.
He wanted a
skull with armor.
You cut the guy up
on the outline.
Maybe your needle
was not right or went bad.
-I changed needles.
-It's pretty obvious.
-You cut him up.
-[mouths]
A cut is a cut.
And that's preschool.
You can't cut people.
'Cause this right here
is gonna get you going home.
Clint.
-How was this for you?
-It was hell.
I think the main thing
that kills it
is the snake body itself--
there's really no detail
in the snake at all.
The only thing I can say
in my defense
was the fact that I had
to make it proportioned
to the fact that he's holding it
like a leash.
I understand.
But where the snake goes back
like this, you see the body.
It's just like a snake head
on a worm.
The turtle's got five toenails
with a sixth toe, on one leg,
and four on the other.
Where are you
seeing this at?
As far as your designing,
making this thing come together,
there's a lot of elements
that you lost it on.
TJ.
You packed this thing solid
with color,
black, purple low lights,
turquoise highlights,
lots of yellow.
It looks like the color
is in there.
I was really trying
to impress you guys
and do something
totally different.
Man, the outline,
it is all over the place.
I don't know what was going on.
We got 16 people.
Somebody's got to get out.
We got to know who can do
the basic fundamentals.
Do we know,
at looking at this tattoo,
if you can do
a clean outline?
No, we don't.
Cee Jay.
How are you doing?
I'm freaking out.
I'm not a fan
of the colored outline.
Well, I was kind of going
for a softer feel.
That brown outline
looks like [bleep].
Look at the outline
of that hand.
I believe that, over time,
it's gonna get even worse.
There's a lot of stuff done
almost exclusively with color.
And I think it holds up great
over time.
You did a pretty face,
which bums me out.
Because if you had just done it
with a black outline,
you would be standing
in different shoes.
You've had a rough start.
[Bleep], man,
your ink blew up,
and this and that,
I know it, dude.
I feel you.
And I want to see you do great.
And you've proved
that you kind of know
to do certain things,
by doing that face that way.
But how do you do that face
and then,
just move off
to the right and lose it.
You've got to pick it up.
Okay, artists,
one of you will be packing
your machines and closing shop.
Head on back to the loft,
and when we've made
our decision,
we'll call you back.
Realistically,
if you go by
who got their ass chewed out...
TJ and her got their ass chewed.
I mean, they were harsh.
They were harsh on everybody.
Were you confident
with yours
-before you went up there today?
-No.
Do you think you have
the worst tattoo?
No.
If not you, then who?
Who deserves to go?
I'm not doing that.
I'm not--
Which tattoo should go home
before you?
-Yours.
-No!
Cee Jay, get ready to fight.
You're about to have to fight,
I'm telling you that right now.
Oh, [bleep] Off!
I'm gonna fight
for my survival.
It's not personal.
I'm not here
to be Cee Jay's friend.
I'm here to win.
If it's me and you
standing there,
save yourself.
[Stammers] 'Cause
I don't plan on leaving.
It's going down.
All right, so it's
fundamentals of tattooing.
The basics.
Sebastian's playing card.
This one's my tattoo of the day.
It jumps off the skin.
I think, graphically,
it's designed well.
That clean look
is what we're looking for.
Steve.
Now this is the gears.
It's just so clean.
It shows
that he's really proficient
in his equipment
and his style
and his confidence.
If I had to say who,
fundamentally,
looks like
they just don't have it at all,
I'm gonna say Kay Kutta looks
like he just doesn't have it.
Kay Kutta's skull.
I don't think anybody
liked that.
Well, he freaked me out,
because he said that
he doesn't do outlines.
I mean, we're talking about
fundamentals and basics.
Yeah, you gotta
do an outline.
I don't know that he's got
the fundamentals to bounce back.
Cee Jay.
Well, like Nunez said,
she did a beautiful face.
Hold on a second, bud.
Did she misspell
"Corinthians"?
Oh, my god.
She misspelled
"Corinthians" here.
-C-o-r-t-n-t-h--
-Wow.
-It's supposed to be c-o-r--
-i-n.
I was so adamant
just at how sketchy
and how the outline
looked so terrible to me...
-Wow.
-I did not even
look at the spelling.
Wow, that's a game-changer
right there.
There's clear people
that should go home today.
I'm talking Cee Jay,
I'm talking Kay Kutta.
I think we're good, man.
I think we know which one.
All right, man.
Do you want to go get 'em?
I'll do it.
All right, man,
head over to the loft.
All right, guys.
We need to see kutta, Steve,
Cee Jay, and Sebastian.
Meet me in the shop.
Two of you
impressed US today
and two of you did not.
Steve and Sebastian,
you guys have
the top two tattoos.
Cee Jay, Kay Kutta,
neither of you
impressed US tonight.
Kay Kutta, you have
a rough time with outlining.
I can outline.
I've been rushing through
my tattoos to get 'em done.
-I know better.
-Not driving the outline
home next week,
you wouldn't even have
a leg to stand on.
I'm a better competitor
and I'm a stronger artist
than Cee Jay.
The first time I touched
a machine was three years ago.
I taught myself in prison
how to tattoo.
I'm self-taught
and I learn fast,
and I'll take
what you guys told me
and I'll be a better competitor
tomorrow.
Cee Jay, let's take
a look at your tattoo.
Can you read for us
what it says on that banner?
"First Corinthians 13:1-7."
Read it again.
Sound it out phonetically.
-Cor--
-"Corinthians" is misspelled.
-What happened there?
-I don't know.
I think, I mean,
just a mistake.
This competition
is not the time
to make these big,
big mistakes,
and a misspelling mistake
is huge.
I don't know how
I missed that.
80 to 90 percent of what I do
is cover-up,
so for me,
it's an easy fix.
How are you gonna make
that "t" an "i"?
If-- if I plug it real hard
with some whites and ochres--
Then what do you do
about the jacked-up word?
It's just the difference
between an "i" and a "t."
That's an easy fix.
You should work at a plastic
surgeon's office, then,
'cause you'd make
a [bleep] load of money.
I call total [bleep]
on that theory.
I don't believe it.
Cee Jay...
Kay Kutta...
Either one of you could be
justifiably sent home tonight.
The judges have decided.
Cee Jay, you do not have what
it takes to be Ink Master.
Please pack up your machines
and close up shop.
Yes, I really feel like
I ruined my career.
I wish I were a quitter,
because, at this point,
I would almost like to stop
tattooing,
but unfortunately,
I just can't quit like that.
I never thought
in a million years
I'd be the first one
eliminated.
[announcer]  On the next
episode of Ink Master...
Your challenge is to
make your canvas disappear.
My wife is
gonna be pissed.
-Aah!
-You gave her
an ugly-ass tattoo.
He has to intimidate,
'cause his tattoos don't.
I got to give you
what you need to do, boy.
You're lucky that girl
can't spell,
'cause they would have
shipped your ass out already.
For this challenge,
you took the easy way out.
I thought you were
gonna murder this thing,
but it murdered you.
-Wow.
-He's hurting.
He's been in the war.
He got blown up
in a damn tank.
I can't handle
the pain anymore.
[Siren]